Hello, everybody. My name is David. My name
is Lucas. And today, we'll be talking about
promises and await. So before we start, we
wanted to define a few terms that we'll
be using throughout this lecture. And for our
first term, it's gonna be okay. Is it
better? Is it better? Okay. Cool. Okay. Cool.
So does it define our first term? It's
synchronous. So synchronous essentially is a process which
happens consecutively where you have one thing happen
after another. And to use an example, basically
we have, for example, classes where we have
six one hundred a and then six one
zero one. Six, six one hundred a is
a prereq for six one zero one, so
you have to take one before you take
the other. Yeah. And for asynchronous, asynchronous is
different where it's an idea where multiple processes
can run at the same time. So using
that analogy earlier, you can have for example,
if you're taking a HasCos and then 6101,
they don't if they don't have any conflicting
prereqs, then you could take both at the
same time. So to start off, we're gonna
use an analogy where we have Abby, an
avid cat lover, who wants to buy cats
from a catalog. So in order to do
this in today's society, you basically would go
to an online retailer, a massive online retailer,
place an order. And then after you place
the order, after some time passes, you can
have one of three things happen. First thing
that can happen is if everything goes well,
you can have the package get delivered. Abby's
happy. Everyone's happy. You can have another scenario
where you can have the delivery get delayed.
So Abby's, anxiously waiting for the package. And
lastly, and I guess disastrously, that something had
happened to the package where it can get
lost and as you can see, Abby is
very sad. So in essence, this analogy also
fares very well for promises as well because
after placing a delivery order or creating a
promise, you can have one of three statuses.
You can have fulfilled or resolved where the
delivery is completely successful. You have pending where
the delivery is just currently being in, like,
this middle state between, like, being fulfilled or
you can have it be rejected or something
happened, something wrong. So applying this idea to
dot then, this should be a bit of
a review but basically we have, let's say,
have a post request and this post request
essentially using our analogy earlier represents a order
that Abby would place where this is basically
our initial order for the cats. And from
this from this order, if the promise is
fulfilled, then we can use a dot then
where this will represent our delivered cats and
let's say the cats are delivered, we can
do like for example a hug function where
we hug the cats. If the promise is
rejected, then we could do other things where,
for example, we can use a dot catch
method where if, if something went wrong then
we can, for example, log it, say, oh
no, something happened here. And just to be
very clear on the idea of what, like,
for example, in this code segment here, what
story objects means, this represents in the case
where it's a failed, it represents the cats
or whatever object we want to retrieve from
the promise. And just to reiterate, if we
have an error occur, if we have the
doc catch method here, we can easily, log
that mistake or log that error that occurs
and very easily tell that something went wrong.
So back to this idea of synchronous versus
asynchronous. So let's imagine Abby is operating in
a synchronous process where, in essence, once she
places the order, she can't do anything in
the meantime where she just simply has to
wait until the order finishes before she can
do anything else. So the delivery comes, the
order is placed. Once again, she's can't do
anything in the process, delivery comes. But let's
say she wants to do something else in
the process. Let's say she wants to cook,
let's say she wants to lecture the lectures,
let's say she wants to get gains. She
can't she can only do these things while
well and also not do the orders. Basically,
she can only do one or the other.
And let's say she goes back to the
like placing an order. In that case, she
can only place the order and then wait
for the delivery in the process as you
can see here. However, basically one of the
big things here is that this wastes a
lot of time. And if you compare this
to an asynchronous process, what Abby can do
instead is place the orders and while the
orders are being delivered, you can she can
cook, she can lecture the lectures, she can
get swole, and in the process, these deliveries
are coming in the background. And in essence,
this is the difference between synchronous and asynchronous,
where in synchronous, basically, Abby can only do
one order at a time, while in asynchronous,
she can do multiple orders at the same
time. And just like promises stop Abby from
wasting her time watching her orders, promises can
let us run other code in the background.
So what does that look like in code?
Right? In terms of this, we have a
use effect here. Right? And this use effect,
we call asynchronous function which is our cat
orders which Abby would place. And in this
case, have a slow cat order then we
have, a dot den where once the order
is fulfilled then we do console dot log
of the cats being delivered. Now basically, yeah,
this idea of, like, we have our slow
cat order and then we have our callback
function which if the order isn't filled, then
we do this. Now let's say we have
some code that's outside of that function where
we have console dot log of once again
cooking some food, lecturing the lectures, and getting
gains. Now I wanna take a few seconds
for you guys to just consider. Even though
this code is run-in order, if we were
to, like, if we were to run this
code in the terminal or just run this
program as a whole, what do you guys
think will happen? Will the cats delivered be
printed out or do you guys think that
the do you think do you guys think
that something else will happen where maybe the
console dot logs later on will be printed
out before the slow cat order is finished?
I want you guys to take like five
seconds to consider that. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Basically
in the next slide, this is the idea
I'm showing where let's say we have like
that blue region where, the blue region represents
this low cat order and then the red
region represents console. Logs in the background. As
we see here in in this output, even
though the slow cat order is written first,
we can still we can have a case
where the the other console. Logs are printed
first and then the slow cat order is
finished, which represents this idea of asynchronous where
the slow cat order is running in the
background while the other console dot logs in
the red region are being run. Yeah. Pass
off Lucas. Alright, so can you guys hear
me in the back? Thumbs up? Alright, cool.
So now we're going be looking into using
multiple promises. So we have this piece of
code here, I'll give you guys like ten
seconds to parse it. Essentially, what we have
is slow number, which is an asynchronous call,
which takes in an input, some number, and
returns it to our front end after one
second. So essentially, what slow number returns whenever
we run this code is first a promise,
and so a and b are promises. And
at the end, we console log a plus
b. Now, I want you guys to take
around ten seconds to think about what the
console log would actually print. Put one finger
up if you think it's nineteen, two fingers
up if you think it's nine ten, three
if it errors out, and four if it's
object promise, object promise. Come on guys. I
see some threes, some fours, 34. Okay, cool.
It actually prints out object promise, object promise,
because JavaScript just interprets a and b as
promises and then concatenates them together. You would
expect that we'd actually want to add up
the numbers that these promises return, and so
in order to kind of unshell the promise
and get the value that we want inside,
we need to wait for these promises to
actually resolve. So you guys know how to
do this, you guys just use dot then,
so dot then awaits for our promise to
resolve and runs some callback function with the
data that we received from our asynchronous function
call. Here, a dot then, that waits for
promise a, and then it runs our callback
function, which takes in eval and then waits
for promise b to resolve as well. And
so then we just console log a val
plus b val. Now that we're going into
dealing with multiple promises, there are multiple ways
to actually create behavior from multiple promises. So
we'll look into that. Assume that we have
multiple promises, we send a get request to
our server for some comments with different parent
IDs, and so we have our five promises
and we put them in an array. We
can make a promise out of all of
these promises, and so what promise dot all
does here is it resolves if all of
our promises in our array resolve, and it
rejects if at least one of the promises
in our array rejects. So you can imagine
that maybe on our Kappa server, we want
all of our comments to render, and if
one comment is not retrieved correctly, then we
don't render anything at all and we run
our error callback function that is in dot
catch. So if all the promises resolve, we
run our functionality in dot then using all
the information, otherwise we run the callback function
in catch. Any questions? Alright, cool. Now let's
look at promise dot race. Promise. Race essentially
takes in our array of promises and then
waits for the first promise to either resolve
or reject. And depending on whether that promise
resolves or rejects, we run or rather, the
promise that we return resolves or rejects. So
if, let's say, promise one is the first
to resolve, then we run the dot then
callback function with the data that promise one
retrieves. But let's say in another case, promise
four actually rejects first, so we get a
result from promise four first, then we run
our error function with the error that promise
four returns. Any questions? Alright, cool. Then promise
dot any takes an iterable of promises and
rejects whenever all the promises reject and resolves
if at least one promise resolves. So you
can imagine that promise one rejects, promise two
rejects, promise three rejects, but then promise four
resolves, so we use the result from promise
four inside of our dot then callback function
and yeah, but if we have the case
where all our promises reject, then we end
up running the callback function in dot catch.
All good? Cool. Now let's talk about async
and await. So in order to actually understand
why we use promises, and this is just
like reiterating the example that David showed us,
let's talk about a synchronous program and an
asynchronous program from the view of actual code.
Imagine that our red block of code depends
on our orange block of code. So our
orange block produces some data that our red
block must use, and so our orange block
must run before our red block. And it's
also supposed that our orange block is not
dependent on our green block, so if we
wanted to, we can execute them in whatever
order we wanted. And so in a synchronous
program, we would have one piece of code
ran after the other, we can't run them
at the same time. So we would run
our green piece of code, our orange piece
of code, and then our red piece of
code. And this would end up taking six
time units. However, in an asynchronous program, this
is where we take advantage of the fact
that our green block and our orange block
are not dependent on each other. So we
can run our green block of code, but
while our green block of code is running,
like maybe we send some API for some
data that we know that our red block
of code will need run, then that API
call can be ran on some other computer
other than our own, and we can run
our green block of code. And so by
the time that our API kind of finishes,
finishes, it's going to return that information to
our own local computer, and once we finish
our green block of code, we can simply
transition into the red block of code. And
in this case, instead of six time units,
we actually just run our program in four.
And so now let's talk about await. So
if you guys remember the example that I
showed you guys earlier, we actually need to
wait for our promises to resolve in order
to use the data that our promises hold.
And so one way to do this is
to use the dot thens that I showed
you, but you can also use a keyword
called await, await just essentially, it awaits for
our promise to resolve. And so here's I'll
give you guys some practice questions to consider
how long a program will take using, just
like waiting for promises. In this example, we
send a get request to some URL and
then immediately await it. We send another get
request, we immediately await it, and then we
console dot log. If a takes three seconds
to await and b takes five seconds, how
long do you guys think it will take
before we print something through our console dot
log? And I'll give you guys fifteen seconds
to think about it. Okay. Now I want
you guys to put up the number of
fingers you think how many minutes or seconds
do you think it will take to actually
execute this code, or to actually print it
out? Five, five, some fives, three, I see
an eight. Eight, okay cool guys. And so
this actually takes eight seconds, and the reason
behind this is we send our get request
to random URL and we immediately await it.
So we send the request, all the work
is being done on some other computer, and
we simply await the data to be returned.
So we're not doing any other work on
our local computer. And then that's in order
for our get request to actually retrieve information,
it's going take three seconds, and then we
move on to the next get request, and
then we immediately await it, and it doesn't
take another five seconds. So in total, it's
going to be eight seconds. Now, this is
another example. So what if we actually do
these get requests before we await them? And
I'll give you guys another twenty seconds to
think about how long does it take if
a takes three seconds to wait, b takes
five. Yeah. Alright. So it's actually five, and
I want you guys to turn around, talk
to your neighbors, and if you guys have
any differing answers, like explain, why you think
it's five. Alright. Let's bring it back now.
So whenever we send our get request to
random URL and other random URL, you can
imagine that we have two different computers that
are doing separate work, and so the moment
that we send those get requests, the work
that they have to do starts and then
we start awaiting promise one, And it would
take whenever we await promise one, we know
that it's going to take three seconds, and
so we await promise one, it takes three
seconds, and in those three seconds, both of
our get requests are being processed. So our
promise two has already done three seconds of
work. So by the time that we get
to awaiting promise two, we only have to
wait two more seconds for it to resolve.
And so that's going to end up taking
five seconds. Any questions? Alright, cool. And now
I'm going give you guys a final example.
What if instead, a takes five seconds to
await and b takes three seconds to await?
And so I want you guys to talk
to your partner, probably like go through the
code and explain your thought process. Alright, cool.
Let's bring it back now. So this actually
takes five seconds as well, and so similar
to our previous example, we're sending both get
requests. We await promise one, promise one is
going to take five seconds, and so we
do five seconds of work for both of
the requests, and by the time we get
to promise two, well, we've already done five
seconds of work, and we've only needed three
seconds of work. So our promise two has
already been resolved, and so we don't wait
any extra time. And so by the time
that we console log done, five seconds have
passed, and that's it. And so the thing
about using await as opposed to dot then
is that only asynchronous functions can use await,
and so what does it mean for a
function to be asynchronous? Well, it just means
that we use the async keyword whenever we
define the function. So we just use async,
and then inside of that async function, we
can freely use await. And so now let's
put the await code and the dot then
dot then code side by side. So imagine
that somewhere up in the code we do
our get request for a and b, and
then we simply want to await for those
promises. And so for our function that uses
await, it's as simple as just await a
plus await b. And then for our dot
then, it's a little bit uglier since we're
nesting in two dot thens, and whenever we're
awaiting multiple promises, it can get a little
bit ugly, and so this is just like
one benefit of using await as opposed to
dot then. Another difference between using await and
dot then is that for traditional promises, we
use dot then, and so for our useEffects,
if we have a get request, we simply
get the data from that get request and
then run our callback function, but for useEffects,
we can't have asynchronous callback functions inside of
useEffects. And so in order to actually run
our await function, we have to define a
get stories function inside of our use effect
callback function, so inside here, and then actually
call get stories. Yeah, so that's just like
a small difference that you guys will have
to take into account. Questions? And I don't
know if I have enough time for this,
Abby? No, okay. But if you guys have
any questions or have ever wondered how JavaScript
actually handles async calls, please go to office
hours. It's a little bit confusing that we
wait for promises and then we run a
callback function, but when do we actually have
the time to run that callback function if
we're running other code? So if you guys
are interested in that, please come to office
hours and I'll do the mini presentation there.
And so when should we use asynchronous functions?
And so we use async functions or API
requests, or rather, promises whenever we have background
tasks that don't know how long these background
tasks will take. So for example, it could
be fetching data, or downloading slash uploading data
on YouTube, and it's very important to realize
why promises contribute to user interactivity. Let's say
we're on YouTube and we're waiting for everything
on YouTube to render, so we're requesting videos,
we're requesting comments, but we can still scroll
through the YouTube app or YouTube website even
when some videos haven't rendered. And that's very
important because if we used synchronous, or if
our website was synchronous, then we would have
to request all of our data, and then
only when we have received all this data
we can scroll through our website. And so
that's just why asynchronous functions are important. Yeah.
I really appreciate if you guys gave us
feedback. It's really important for us to improve
our lectures. Thank you guys.